---
title: 'Climatology Analysis Over the Eastern African Region'
date: 2021-07-18
permalink: /posts/2021/07/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---
<p class="page__date"><strong>
  <i class="fa fa-fw fa-users" aria-hidden="true"></i> Authors:</strong>
  Joy Pamela Kina Kariuki, Origene Tuyishimire and Yusuf Brima
</p>

Introduction
======
Climate has been a global topic for the past decades and one of the eminent existential threats for modern civilisation due to climate change. The industrial revolution has been one of the primary catalyst to increase the global carbon footprint, greenhouse emission, halogens such as chlorofluorocarbon amongst other non-anthropomorphic climate forcings. These activities has steadily led to wide spread changes in climatic conditions such as global temperature, sea levels, precipitation, and other indicators. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) [1] (the United Nations body for assessing the science related to climate change),it certain that, in most places temperature will continue to rise. Therefore, the rise of global temperature will have cascading and feedback effect on other processes that contribute to climatic conditions.

In light of this, it is vital to understand the climate patterns of different regions especially in sub-Saharan Africa, primarily to have more specific, detailed and valid information to inform policy and help in preparedness of extreme events. Africa, has an equatorial climate, tropical wet and dry climate, monsoon climate, semi-arid climate, desert climate and the subtropical highland climate. Due to this, different regions vary in the amount of precipitation and the temperatures. East Africa is in the eastern part of Africa. It mainly experiences a tropical climate due to the equator. The region has low altitude areas and high altitude areas which makes the weather patterns vary. This study focuses on the climatology of East Africa with a focus on the precipitation and temperature, mean and their seasonality as well as the dryness and wetness conditions in the region. The figure [1] below shows the map of the East Africa region, the principal geographic area of study with a special interest in Kenya.


You can have many headings
======

Aren't headings cool?
------
