---
title: 'Applications of Network Theory in Climate Analysis'
date: 2021-07-09
permalink: /posts/2013/08/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

<p class="page__date"><strong>
  <i class="fa fa-fw fa-users" aria-hidden="true"></i> Authors:</strong>
  Origene Tuyishimire
</p>

Several statistical methods have been applied to analyze the climate system and remote connections in that system, 
but those methods are far from perfect when dealing with such a big and complex system. Therefore, we present another method called “Network Theory” 
that is specifically designed to analyze complex systems like climate. From Network Theory, we apply
centrality measures and community detection algorithms that can uncover links and influential
factors in the climate system. With Network Theory, we get a new way of extracting the deepest
information in climate networks like how two distant regions are related and the influential factor
behind that relationship. Using time-series precipitation data on global and local levels, Network
Theory was able to highlight the importance of ocean weather systems on terrestrial weather. We
were able to view the effects of trade winds originating from the equatorial eastern hemisphere
mainly across the Pacific ocean as they pass around the globe. We were able to identify changes in
climate network structure over time, which revealed patterns of climate change. Results obtained
proved that Network Theory can be reliable when analyzing climate.

Keywords: Network Theory; Climate network; Centrality measures; Community detection; Trade
winds.

[Read the paper Here](/files/Network_Theory_in_climate_science.pdf)
